The novel was inspired by a youthful rom
ance Fitzgerald had with socialite Ginevra King, and the riotous parties
 he
 attended on Long Island's North Shore in 1922. Following a move to the

 French Riviera, Fitzgerald completed a rough draft of the novel in 1924.
  He submitted it to editor Maxwell Perkins, who persuaded Fitzgerald to
  revise the work over the following winter. After making revisions, Fitzgera
  ld was satisfied with the text, but remained ambivalent about the book's title and
  considered several alternatives. Painter Francis Cugat's dust jacket art, named Celest
  ial Eyes, greatly impressed Fitzgerald, and he incorporated its imagery into the novel.



After its publication by Scribner's in April 1925, The Great Gatsby received gen
erally favorable reviews, though some literary critics believed it did not equal Fi
tzgerald's previous efforts. Compared to his earlier novels, This Side of Paradise (1920) an
d The Beautiful and Damned (1922), the novel was a commercial disappointment. It sold fewer th
an 20,000 copies by October, and Fitzgerald's hopes of a monetary windfall from the novel were
 unrealized. When the au
thor died in 1940, he believed himself to be a failure and his work forgotten.


Plot summary
George Wilson and his wife Myrtle live in the "valley of ashes", a refuse dump (shown in the above photograph) historically located in New York City during the 1920s. Today, the area is Flushing Meadows–Corona Park.
George Wilson and his wife Myrtle live in the "valley of ashes", a refuse dump (shown in the above photograph) historically located in New York City during the 1920s. Today, the area is Flushing Meadows–Corona Park.
In spring 1922, Nick Carraway—a Yale alumnus from the Midwest and a World War I veteran—journeys to New York City to obtain employment as a bond salesman. He rents a bungalow in the Long Island village of West Egg, next to a luxurious estate inhabited by Jay Gatsby, an enigmatic multi-millionaire who hosts dazzling soirées yet doesn't partake in them.

One evening, Nick dines with a distant cousin, Daisy Buchanan, in the old mon
ey town of East Egg. Daisy is married to Tom Buchanan, formerly a Yale football st
ar whom Nick knew during his college days. The couple has recently relocated from Chicago to a mansion directly across the bay from Gatsby's estate. There, Nick encounters Jordan Baker, an insolent flapper and golf champion who is a childhood friend of Daisy's. Jordan confides to Nick that Tom keeps a mistress, Myrtle Wilson, who brazenly telephones him at his home and who lives in the "valley of ashes", a sprawling refuse dump.[33] That evening, Nick sees Gatsby standing alone on his lawn, staring at a green light across the bay.

Days later, Nick reluctantly accompanies a drunken and agitated Tom to New Yor
k City by train. En route, they stop at a garage inhabited by mechanic George
Wilson and his wife Myrtle. Myrtle joins them, and the trio proceed to a small
New York apartment that Tom has rented for trysts with her. Guests arrive and a party ensues, which ends with Tom slapping Myrtle and breaking her nose after she mentions Daisy.

One morning, Nick receives a formal invitation to a party at Gatsby's mansion.
Once there, Nick is embarrassed that he recognizes no one and begins drinking h
eavily until he encounters Jordan. While chatting with her, he is approached by a man who introduces himself as Jay Gatsby and insists that both he and Nick served in the 3rd Infantry Division[c] during the war. Gatsby attempts to ingratiate himself with Nick and when Nick leaves the party, hel